# Privacy Working Group conversation on Privacy Principles - 20 February 2025


## Attendees 
- Jeffrey Yasskin
- Nick Doty
- Tara Whalen
- Chris Needham
- Pete Snyder
- Joey Stanford
- Christine Runnegar
- Lola Odelola
- Tom Van Goethem
- Tom Ritter
- Johann Hofmann
- Stalgia Grigg
- David Pham (Washington Post) (welcome!)
- Michael Kleber

Apologies: 

- 

Chair: Nick Doty

Scribe: Pete Snyder

## Agenda

### 1. Introductions, Code of Conduct

https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/ 

### 2. Privacy Principles proposed changes

Jeffrey: The council is trying to get consensus on the privacy principals to address the current formal objection, to avoid having to decide on overruling (or not) the objection. There are two PRs, one which is likely accepted by the objector, the other not.

https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/457

First PR changes wording around "ancillary" (above). Feedback encouraged and welcome.

Chris N: How / why does this resolve the objection?

Jeffrey: Objector thinks "ancillary" implies "unnecessary and not worthwhile."

Nick: +1 on the PR, put definition inline so that the meaning of the word is clearer

Pete: will suggest something in the PR, the user might not know what it's used for or what goal it supports

Jeffrey: iterating may make resolving the objection difficult, but we'll discuss and try to move forward.

https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/458

Second PR (above, not known whether it resolves the concern); Objector wants to change the text to not "rule out" cases where users gain access to content by providing personal information. Seems like there are at least some in W3C who don't think this is okay, it still seems to be debated, but maybe we can clarify in the document the bounds of the debate. Feedback from PrivacyWG encouraged and welcome.

Joey: This change would remove the concern about users potentially being tricked into re-opting-into processessing. This text seems important, removing it seems a loss.

Jeffrey: Suggestions on better wording welcome.

Nick: Seems likely that there are just some questions and issues that won't be resolved in this document, like what counts as essential to the operation of the service

Jeffrey: Agreed, but document can help inform future disucssion / debate.

(Nick will share these PRs with the mailing list to solicit more feedback)

Jeffrey: resolving the objection is not precisely defined by W3C process. TAG wants to make sure changes are acceptable to PrivacyWG before committing them. Members of the Council are proposing these changes to try and resolve objections.

proposed for the privacywg to consider on the list: the privacywg doesn't object to these changes if they resolve the objections

Pete: I would like to reword the text on the first PR.


### 3. TAG Face to Face

Lola: There will be a TAG Face to Face. I'm soliciting feedback from groups that do not have members on the TAG on what design reviews the TAG should prioritize (link below). Members w/o TAG representation are welcome to make at 3 requests using the form. Form will be closed mid-day UK time Feb 25th.

https://lolaslab.co/blog/2025/tag-paris-f2f/
